Didn't find an article for this but there is a chapter on it in the book "High Performance Web Sites" by Steve Souders. Found information in it quite useful so paraphrasing here.

* If you have script tags and stylesheets, in the context of loading just that page, inlining the CSS and JS is faster than linking to an external script and stylesheet. This is because there is a significant overhead in making network calls to get the CSS and JS file.
* However, on repeat visits, inlining gets more expensive than loading externally because the browser cache kicks in for subsequent network requests. Since the CSS and JS is inlined, it is downloaded every time the HTML page is requested. If external resources would have been used, subsequent requests would have been serviced by the browser cache.
* Measure unique users and page visits for your site. If unique users are just as much as the page visits, you probably have a lot of one-time visitors. For such a use-case, inlining can actually work great, since it offers better performance on first load of a site. If you have many more page views than the number of unique users, you have a lot of repeat visitors. In this case, it might be a better idea to user external resource links.
* Another factor to consider is how much of your code is reusable across pages. If there is a lot of code reuse, external resources are better for you since the browser can cache many of these resources as the users navigate between pages.
* Typical results in the field favour external resources and so if you don't want to worry about this yet, just add your resources as external.
* For home pages (marketing pages) that see very little code reuse with other pages and that generally don't have repeat visitors, its acceptable to inline your resources.
* As an optimisation strategy, you can inline your resources and when browser fires the `onload` event, you can fetch the resources from external links using JavaScript. This way, when the user navigates to some other page, the external resources will already be in the browser cache and the page load will be fast. Please note, with this approach, the first page should be able to handle its execution twice (consider not running it the second time).
* Another optimisation strategy can be letting the server know when to send inline and when to link externally. This can be done by setting session-based cookie. If the cookie is absent, the server should make the resources inline. If the cookie is present, this means that this is not a new session and so the resources can be linked externally (since most probably, the resources will be present in the user's browser cache). This cookie can also be time-based instead of session-based.
